= XliffRaw.xsl

[abstract]
Converts an XLIFF file with *g*, *x*, *ph* and *mrk* elements to an XLIFF file with
escaped inline markup.

== Parameters

 [DefaultNS]

`DefaultNS` (URI)::  The URI of the default namespace of the inline
elements. Default is the DocBook namespace.

Input
-----

An http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF]
document containing g, ph, x and mrk elements.

Output
------

An http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF]
document containing escaped inline markup. This the format used by
PACBook.

Description
-----------

The stylesheet copies the structure and content of the input document to
the output document. Any g, ph, x and mrk elements within the source
elements in the input document are transformed as follows.

Any x elements whose ctype attribute is lb are exported as escaped
linebreak processing instructions.

Any x elements whose ctype attribute starts with x-pi- are exported as
escaped processing instructions with no content. The name of the
processing instruction is taken from the ctype attribute.

Any ph elements whose ctype attribute starts with x-pi- are exported as
escaped processing instructions with content. The name of the processing
instruction is taken from the ctype attribute. The content of the ph
element is exported as the content of the processing instruction.

Any other x elements are exported as escaped elements containing no
content. The namespace and name of the element are taken from the ctype
attribute. If the namespace of the element is the same as the namespace
specified by the `DefaultNS` parameter — by default, DocBook — the
namespace prefix is not output.

Any other ph elements are exported as escaped elements containing no
content. The namespace and name of the element are taken from the ctype
attribute. If the namespace of the element is the same as the namespace
specified by the `DefaultNS` parameter — by default, DocBook — the
namespace prefix is not output. The content of the ph element is
exported as a content:ref attribute on the exported element.

Any g elements are exported as escaped elements containing content. The
namespace and name of the element are taken from the ctype attribute. If
the namespace of the element is the same as the namespace specified by
the `DefaultNS` parameter — by default, DocBook — the namespace prefix
is not output.

Child attributes of the g or x element are added to the elements in the
output file. If the attribute is in an explicit namespace, the attribute
is exported in the same namespace. If the attribute is in the
urn:x-no-namespace namespace, it is exported in no namespace. If the
attribute is in no namespace or the
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF]
namespace, it is ignored.

Any mrk mtype='term' elements are exported as its:term='yes' attributes
on the parent exported element. The content of the mrk element becomes
the content of the parent exported element.

Any mrk mtype='phrase' elements are exported as its:locNote attributes
on the parent exported element. The value of the comment attribute is
exported as value of the its:locNote attribute. The content of the mrk
element becomes the content of the parent exported element.

Any g, ph, x and mrk elements within the target elements in the input
document are transformed as above, using the attributes of the
corresponding g, ph, x and mrk elements within the associated source
element.

This stylesheet forms a round trip with the
xref:XliffTemp.xsl.adoc[XliffTemp.xsl] and xref:XliffTag.xsl.adoc[XliffTag.xsl]
stylesheets.
