= XliffTag.xsl

[abstract]
Converts a temporary, invalid XLIFF file with unescaped inline markup to a valid XLIFF
file with *g*, *x*, *ph* and *mrk* elements.

== Parameters

 [DefaultNS]

`DefaultNS` (URI)::  The URI of the default namespace of the inline
elements. Default is the DocBook namespace.

Input
-----

A temporary, invalid
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] document
containing unescaped inline markup.

Output
------

An http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF]
document containing g, ph, x and mrk elements. This is the format
preferred by many translation houses.

Description
-----------

The stylesheet copies the structure and content of the input document to
the output document. Any inline markup within the input document is
transformed as follows.

Processing instructions with no content are exported as x elements. The
ctype attribute is set to x-pi- plus the name of the processing
instruction. As an exception, the linebreak processing instruction is
exported as an x element with ctype='lb'.

Processing instructions containing text are exported as ph elements. The
ctype attribute is set to x-pi- plus the name of the processing
instruction. The content of the processing instruction is exported as
the content of the ph element.

Elements containing no content are exported as x elements. The ctype
attribute is set to x-, followed by the prefix associated with the
namespace of the current element, followed by a hyphen, followed by the
name of the current element. If the namespace of the element is not
specified, it is assumed to be the namespace associated with the URI
specified by the `DefaultNS` parameter — by default, DocBook.

Elements containing content are exported as g elements. The ctype
attribute is set to x-, followed by the prefix associated with the
namespace of the current element, followed by a hyphen, followed by the
name of the current element. If the namespace of the element is not
specified, it is assumed to be the namespace associated with the URI
specified by the `DefaultNS` parameter — by default, DocBook.

The g or x elements have an id attribute whose value is unique and is
based on the ID of the current translation unit.

Child attributes of the elements in the input file are added to the g or
x element. If the attribute is in an explicit namespace, the attribute
is exported in the same namespace. If the attribute is in no namespace,
it is exported in a special namespace whose prefix is nn and whose URI
is urn:x-no-namespace. This is to distinguish between
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF]
attributes and attributes from the source file.

There are three exceptions:

* Elements with the content:ref attribute are exported as ph elements
whose content is the value of the content:ref attribute. This makes the
translation unit read more naturally and can help the translators
establish the correct word order and punctuation. The ctype and other
attributes of this ph element are set as above.
* The its:term='yes' attribute is exported as a child mrk mtype='term'
element which contains the content of the parent element.
* The its:locNote attribute is exported as a child mrk mtype='phrase'
element which contains the content of the parent element. The value of
the its:locNote attribute is exported as a comment attribute on the mrk
mtype='phrase' element.

The content of the source element is copied to any target element which
is currently empty. This is to meet the requirements of translation
houses who prefer the target element to start with the source text. The
output of the xref:XliffTemp.xsl.adoc[XliffTemp.xsl] stylesheet is intended
to be used as input for this stylesheet.
