= LingCasing.xsl

[abstract]
Sets the orthographic case of specified text in an XML document.

== Parameters

 [ShortWords]

`ShortWords` (string):: English words which should not be capitalised
in title case.

Input
-----

An XML document. You must mark up the source document with linguistic
attributes describing the orthographic case which is required for the
specified text â€” see description below.

Output
------

An XML document, identical to the input except that marked text is set
to the required orthographic case.

Description
-----------

The stylesheet recurses through the document and copies each element. If
any element has the ling:orth attribute, the stylesheet changes the case
of the text nodes in this element and all descendent elements.

This is useful for transclusion. If you transclude a term at the start
of a sentence, you may want to set the case of the transcluded term to
sentence case. If you transclude a term into a title, you may want to
set the case of the transcluded term to title case.

This stylesheet is only relevant to languages which use orthographic
case. The stylesheet supports all alphabets supported by the
http://xsltsl.sourceforge.net/[XSL Standard Library] string stylesheets,
including Latin, Greek and Cyrillic.

The namespace URI for the linguistic attributes is
http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics.

The ling:orth attribute may have any of the following values:

* upper
* lower
* sentence
* title

Upper
~~~~~

Changes the case of text nodes to upper case. This is applied to text in
the current element and all descendent elements, unless any descendent
elements have a different ling:orth attribute.

Lower
~~~~~

Changes the case of text nodes to lower case. This is applied to text in
the current element and all descendent elements, unless any descendent
elements have a different ling:orth attribute.

Sentence
~~~~~~~~

Finds the first text node child of the current element and changes the
first character of the word to upper case. The rest of the text nodes in
this element and all descendent elements are left unchanged, unless any
descendent elements have a different ling:orth attribute.

Title
~~~~~

Splits the text into words (at spaces). If a word is _not_ listed in the
`ShortWords` parameter, changes the first character of the word to upper
case. This is applied to text nodes in the current element and all
descendent elements, unless any descendent elements have a different
ling:orth attribute.

Title case only supports English. For other languages, use sentence
case. The default value of the `ShortWords` parameter is hard coded into
the stylesheet.
