= XlateMarkup.xsl

[abstract]
Marks up translatable elements in an XML document with a unique *xlf:id* attribute.

== Parameters

 [ITS] [Counter] [Carried]

`ITS` (URI):: URI of the http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/[ITS] rules file,
absolute or relative to the stylesheet
`Counter` (URI):: URI of the input counter file, absolute or relative
to the input document
`Carried` (URI):: URI of the output counter file, absolute or relative
to the input document

Input
-----

An XML document. DocBook is supported by default; SVG to follow.

Output
------

An XML document, identical to the input except that translation strings
are uniquely identified by auto-generated xlf:id attributes.

Description
-----------

The stylesheet first looks for the translation unit counter specified by
the `Counter` parameter. This translation unit counter is an
automatically-generated XML document containing a single element,
data:counter xmlns:data='urn:x-pacbook:data'. The data:counter element
contains a text node, which must be an integer. It can also have a
single attribute, prefix, which should contain an alphanumeric string.

The purpose of the translation unit counter is to keep track of the
translation unit IDs which have been assigned to this document, and
ensure that newly marked-up translatable elements get unique IDs. The
simplest use case would be to have a single translation unit counter for
all your documents. Realistically you would use more than one
translation counter. Several related documents might share a translation
unit counter; this would imply that the related documents are all
translated together, using a single
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] file for
each target language. You could also, if you wanted, use a different
prefix with each translation unit counter, but this is not necessary.

If the translation unit counter is not specified, it is assumed to be
`counter.xml` in the same location as the input document.

If the specified translation unit counter is not found, the prefix is
assumed to be u and the count is set to 0.

The stylesheet then looks for the specified
http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/[ITS] rules file. This is a set of
http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/[ITS] 2.0 rules that specify which elements
in the input file correspond to translation units. For each
its:withTextRule element in the http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/[ITS] rules
file, if the withinText attribute is set to no, the elements specified
by the selector attribute correspond to translation units. If no
http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/[ITS] rules file is specified, the default is
the `DocBook.its` file supplied with this stylesheet.

The stylesheet then copies the structure and content of the input
document to the output document. Any elements which match the specified
http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/[ITS] rules are marked up with a unique
xlf:id attribute, as long as:

1.  They are _not_ marked with the its:translate='no' attribute, and:
2.  They do not have an xlf:id attribute already.

Furthermore, any elements which are marked with the its:translate='yes'
attribute are also marked up with a unique xlf:id attribute, as long as
they do not have an xlf:id attribute already.

The value of the xlf:id attribute consists of the specified prefix,
followed by a sequential count of the newly marked up translatable
elements, starting at the next number after the number specified in the
translation unit counter, if any. (The xlf:id attribute is used in
preference to xml:id because transclusion might mean that the same
translatable element occurs in several places in the same document, and
xml:id must contain unique values.)

Finally, the new total number of marked up translatable elements is
written out to the translation unit counter file specified by the
`Carried` parameter. By default, this is assumed to be `counter.xml` in
the same location as the input document, thus overwriting the original
translation unit counter file with the new total.

In theory, this stylesheet can be used to mark up any XML document, as
long as a correctly formatted http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/[ITS] rules
file is supplied. However, you must make sure that any namespaces
specified in the http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/[ITS] rules file are also
declared in this stylesheet.
