= XlateDiff.xsl

[abstract]
Checks an XML document against an existing translation in the specified
language and generates a new XLIFF file containing the strings which are new or changed.

== Parameters

 (Language | Xliff)

`Language` (string):: ISO language code
`Xliff` (URI):: The URI of the
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] file you
want to compare

== Input
An XML document. You must mark up the source document with:

. The xlf:id attributes which uniquely identify each translation
string.
. Optionally, xref:introduction:RDF-Translations.adoc[translation metadata], showing
the location of the
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] files
which contain the translations of the document â€” this is only required
if you are not specifying the `Xliff` parameter explicitly.

== Output
An http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF]
document.

== Description
The stylesheet examines the source file for translatable elements. (A
translatable element is one which has an xlf:id attribute and does not
have the its:translate='no' attribute.)

For each translatable element, the stylesheet looks for the specified
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] file, or
if not specified, the
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] file
that corresponds to the specified output language, according to the
xref:introduction:RDF-Translations.adoc[translation metadata].

If the http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF]
file is found, the stylesheet searches for the translation unit with the
same xlf:id, and compares its source with the translatable element in
the source document.

If the corresponding translation unit does not exist in the
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] file, a
new translation unit is written to the output document which contains
this translatable element as its source.

If the corresponding translation unit exists in the
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] file,
but its source is different from the translatable element in the source
document, a translation unit is written to the output document which
contains this translatable element as its source and the target text
from the original
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] file as
its target.

If the corresponding translation unit exists in the
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] file,
and its source is the same as the translatable element in the source
document, and the target is empty or marked as incomplete, the
translation unit is copied from the original
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] file to
the output document.

If the corresponding translation unit exists in the
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] file,
and its source is the same as the translatable element in the source
document, and the target is not empty or marked as incomplete, there is
no output.

If the http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF]
file is not found, there is no output.

NOTE: In the output file, all trans-unit elements are contained in a single,
flat file element. Any multiple file or group elements from the original
http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html[XLIFF] file are
not copied to the output file.
