= TransParam.xsl

Enables parametrised transclusion.

== Parameters

 [defRole]

`defRole` (URI):: A URI which identifies the transclusion XLink role.
Default is http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/role/transclusion.

Input
-----

An XML document containing transclusion definitions and references.

Output
------

An XML document, identical to the input except that transclusion
references are replaced by their definitions.

Description
-----------

This stylesheet enables you to transclude small snippets of XML; for
example, to insert a product name at multiple locations in the document.
It is complementary to the standard XML methods of transclusion using
XInclude, in that it enables you to redefine text replacements locally.
It is based on early versions of the
http://docbook.org/docs/transclusion[proposed standard for DocBook
transclusion].

To define XML snippets for transclusion (definitions) create an extended
link element with the specified transclusion role URI in the metadata at
the start of the document. Within this extended link element add XLink
resource elements which contain the XML text or elements for
transclusion. (To refer to an external set of definitions, use XInclude
to transclude the parameter definitions into the document!) Each XLink
resource must have an xl:label attribute which enables you to refer to
this resource.

To redefine resources locally, e.g. within a single section of the
document, add new XLink resources in the same way to the metadata at the
start of that section.

To mark the places where the XML snippets should be transcluded
(references) add elements with the content:ref attribute to the body of
the document. The content:ref attribute should contain the name of the
resource that you want to include at this point. Which element you use
depends on the circumstances. For purposes of validation you should use
an element which is permitted at the location of the reference. In most
cases you may want to use an empty generic wrapper element, such as
phrase in DocBook.

The namespace URI for the content:ref attribute is
http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion.

When the stylesheet is run, it parses the document and finds any element
with the content:ref attribute. When it does so, it finds the nearest
ancestor element which contains an extended link element with the
specified transclusion role URI, which in turn contains an XLink
resource whose xl:label attribute matches the content:ref attribute. The
stylesheet keeps the reference element, but replaces the content of the
element with the content of the XLink resource.

You should run this stylesheet after initial large scale, context-free
transclusion. If any of your translation strings contain transclusion
references, you may need to run this stylesheet after translation
instead.

Small scale, inline transclusion can have linguistic consequences. See
xref:introduction:Linguistic-Processing.adoc[Linguistic Processing] for details of the
mechanism that PACBook attempts to deal with these problems.

Notes
~~~~~

* In order to avoid the problem of duplicate IDs, transclusion resources
simply should not contain XML IDs. You could use a schematron rule to
enforce this.
* It is the responsibility of the author to ensure that the content of
the transclusion resources is valid in all the locations where it is
transcluded. You may want to validate the document after parametrised
transclusion is complete.
* DocBook 5.0 does not have XLink resource elements. For this purpose,
PACBook provides a custom layer for the DocBook 5.0 schema which adds a
resource element to the extendedlink element. (In DocBook 5.1 it may be
possible to use a link element with the xl:type='resource' attribute,
but this has not been tested.) The PACBook schema also adds the
content:ref attribute to the common attributes. See the
xref:introduction:PACBook-Schema.adoc[PACBook RNG schema].

Roadmap
-------

Extended links are overloaded in PACBook. Perhaps find some other markup
for parametrised transclusion definitions, e.g.
http://purl.org/spar/doco[DoCO] or the
http://www.essepuntato.it/2008/12/pattern[Document Structural Patterns
Ontology].
