= TransID.xsl

Enables fine-grained fixup of *xml:id* attributes after transclusion.

== Parameters

 [idRole]

`idRole` (URI):: A URI which identifies the ID fixup XLink role.
Default is http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/role/id.

Input
-----

An XML document containing extended links to fix up transcluded XML IDs
as described below.

Output
------

An XML document, identical to the input except that XML IDs are fixed
up.

Description
-----------

This stylesheet is useful if you have a subdocument which contains XML
IDs and which must be transcluded into an assembly file or master
document in two or more places. In order to avoid validation errors,
each ID must be unique. The process of making duplicate IDs unique is
called ID fixup. Other ID fixup mechanisms take a blanket approach to
fixup, e.g. by adding a suffix to each ID in the transcluded
subdocuments. This stylesheet is useful for cases when a fine-grained
approach is required. It enables you to specify by hand how each
transcluded ID should be fixed up, using XLinks.

In the assembly file or master document, at each point where you want to
transclude the target subdocument, you must add an extended link element
with the xl:role attribute set to the specified fixup role URI. For each
ID that will need fixing up, this extended link should contain:

. A locator element with an xl:label attribute unique within the
extended link, whose xl:href attribute points to one xml:id attribute in
the subdocument.
. A locator element with an xl:label attribute unique within the
extended link, whose xl:href attribute points to the new ID that you
want the target subdocument to use.
. An arc element whose xl:from attribute is set to the xl:label
attribute of the start locator and whose xl:to attribute is set to the
xl:label attribute of the fixup locator.

When run, the stylesheet recurses through the document and copies each
element. If any element has an xml:id attribute, the stylesheet looks
for the nearest ancestor element which contains an extended link whose
xl:role attribute is set to the specified ID fixup role URI _and_ which
contains a locator element whose xl:href attribute points to the current
xml:id attribute. If it finds a matching locator, the stylesheet follows
the arc to the target locator and replaces the value of the current
xml:id attribute with the value indicated by the target locatorâ€™s
xl:href attribute.

You should run this stylesheet immediately after transclusion. If any of
your translation strings contain xml:id attributes, you may need to run
this stylesheet again immediately after translation.

After you have fixed up IDs, you may also need to fix up cross
references or links that point to those IDs. See
xref:TransLinks.xsl.adoc[TransLinks.xsl].

Roadmap
-------

At present this stylesheet requires that the extended links, locators
and arcs are DocBook extendedlink, locator and arc elements, meaning
that the stylesheet only works with DocBook. In future releases, this
stylesheet will be updated to work with any elements with attributes
xl:type='extended', xl:type='locator' or xl:type='arc'. This will make
the stylesheets work with any XLink-compliant XML schema, including
DocBook 5.1.
