= TransLinks.xsl

Enables fine-grained fixup of simple link attributes after transclusion.

== Parameters

 [linkRole]

`linkRole` (URI):: A URI which identifies the link fixup XLink role.
Default is http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/role/link.

Input
-----

An XML document containing extended links to fix up simple link
attributes as described below.

Output
------

An XML document, identical to the input except that simple link
attributes are fixed up.

Description
-----------

This stylesheet is useful in two scenarios:

1.  If you have a subdocument which contains XML IDs and which must be
included in an assembly file or master document in two or more places.
In order to avoid validation errors, each ID must be unique. The process
of making duplicate IDs unique is called ID fixup. After you have fixed
up IDs, you may also need to fix up _inbound_ cross references or links
that point to those IDs.
2.  If you want to include a subdocument containing _outbound_ cross
references or links to IDs in other subdocuments which are not present
in the current assembly file or master document. You can fix up these
links to redirect them to other IDs which are known to be present.

This stylesheet enables you to specify by hand how links should be fixed
up, using XLink.

In the assembly file or master document, at the start of each section
where you want to fix up links or cross references, you must add an
extended link element with the xl:role attribute set to the specified
link fixup role URI. For each link or cross-reference that needs fixing
up, the extended link should contain:

. A locator element with an xl:label attribute unique within the
extended link, whose xl:href attribute is set to a link location that
you want to fix up.
. A locator element with an xl:label attribute unique within the
extended link, whose xl:href attribute is set to the link location that
you want the link or cross reference to use.
. An arc element whose xl:from attribute is set to the xl:label
attribute of the start locator and whose xl:to attribute is set to the
xl:label attribute of the fixup locator.

When run, the stylesheet recurses through the document and copies each
element. If any element has an xl:href attribute, the stylesheet looks
for the nearest ancestor element which contains an extended link whose
xl:role attribute is set to the specified link fixup role URI _and_
which contains a locator element whose xl:href attribute is the same as
the current xl:href attribute. If it finds a matching locator, the
stylesheet follows the arc to the target locator and replaces the value
of the current xl:href attribute with the value indicated by the target
locatorâ€™s xl:href attribute.

For DocBook documents, this stylesheet also fixes up linkend attributes
and the content of arearefs attributes in the same way.

You should run this stylesheet after transclusion. If any of your
translation strings contain simple links, you may need to run this
stylesheet after translation instead.

For fixing up IDs after transclusion, see
xref:TransID.xsl.adoc[TransID.xsl].

Roadmap
-------

At present this stylesheet requires that the extended links, locators
and arcs are DocBook extendedlink, locator and arc elements, meaning
that the stylesheet only works with DocBook. In future releases, this
stylesheet will be updated to work with any elements with attributes
xl:type='extended', xl:type='locator' or xl:type='arc'. This will make
the stylesheets work with any XLink-compliant XML schema, including
DocBook 5.1.
