= DBProcs.xsl

[abstract]
Transforms PAC processing instructions in DocBook documents.

== Parameters

None.

== Input
A DocBook file containing PAC processing instructions as described
below.

== Output
A DocBook file in which the PAC processing instructions have been
transformed as described below.

== Description
The stylesheet copies the structure and content of the input document to
the output document. Any PAC processing instructions within the input
document are transformed as follows.

=== pac-revhistory
You can use this processing instruction to place a revision history
table at a precise place in the document. When the stylesheet encounters
this processing instruction, it builds a DocBook informaltable
containing four columns: *Version*, *Date*, *Author* and *Detail*. The
table uses the CALS table model.

The table header is populated in the language specified by the nearest
ancestor xml:lang attribute. The labels are taken from `DataLabels.xml`.
The only fully-supported languages at present are German, English,
Spanish, French and Dutch.

Each table row is populated by the details given in the revhistory
element in the document’s info section, if there is one.

The attributes of the informaltable, e.g. framing, row separators and
column separators, are given by the pac.revhistory.table attribute set.
The attributes of the four columns, e.g. column width, are given by the
`pac.revhistory.col.version`, `pac.revhistory.col.date`,
`pac.revhistory.col.author` and pac.revhistory.col.detail attribute
sets.

=== pac-applicability
You can use this processing instruction to place an applicability table
at a precise place in the document. When the stylesheet encounters this
processing instruction, it builds a DocBook informaltable containing
four columns: *Product*, *Name*, *Detail* and *Version*. The table uses
the CALS table model.

The table header is populated in the language specified by the nearest
ancestor xml:lang attribute. The labels are taken from `DataLabels.xml`.
The only fully-supported languages at present are German, English,
French and Dutch.

Each table row is populated by the details given in the document’s
link:#RDF-Applicability[applicability metadata], if there are any.

The attributes of the informaltable, e.g. framing, row separators and
column separators, are given by the pac.applicability.table attribute
set. The attributes of the four columns, e.g. column width, are given by
the `pac.applicability.col.product`, `pac.applicability.col.name`,
`pac.applicability.col.detail` and pac.applicability.col.version
attribute sets.

=== pac-pubsnumber
When the stylesheet encounters this processing instruction it creates a
copy of the content of the biblioid class='pubsnumber' element in the
document’s info section, if there is one.

=== pac-edition
When the stylesheet encounters this processing instruction it creates a
copy of the content of the edition element in the document’s info
section, if there is one.

=== pac-releaseinfo
When the stylesheet encounters this processing instruction it creates a
copy of the value of the status attribute on the document’s root
element, if there is one.

== Roadmap
The pac-releaseinfo processing instruction should actually output the
document’s release info...
