= DBProfile.xsl

[abstract]
Enables you to include or exclude parts of a document conditionally
based on the document’s ID.

== Parameters

All of the DocBook XSL stylesheet profiling parameters, except for
`profile.condition` — see below.

== Input
A DocBook document with conditional profiling attributes.

== Output
A profiled DocBook document.

== Description
This stylesheet is a custom layer which imports the `profile.xsl`
stylesheet from the DocBook XSL stylesheets.

For quicker processing and to save network bandwith, you should set up
your XML catalog so that
http://docbook.sourceforge.net/release/xsl-ns/current/profiling/profile.xsl
is redirected to your local copy of `profile.xsl`.

This stylesheet takes the xml:id attribute from the root element in the
document and passes that to `profile.xsl` as the value of the
`profile.condition` parameter. The result of this is that any elements
in the document which have the condition attribute set to the document’s
XML ID are included in the output; any which have the condition
attribute set to something else are excluded.

This enables you to specify that certain parts of a subdocument should
be omitted and certain parts kept when the subdocument is transcluded
into a particular master document, based solely on that master
document’s ID.

If necessary, you can supply a fake ID value to the `profile.xsl`
stylesheet by adding a condition attribute to the root element of the
master document. The stylesheet will take this as the value of the
`profile.condition` parameter in preference to the root xml:id
attribute.

It is recommended to perform conditional profiling as a separate step
when using PACBook. For example, you should process parametrised
transclusion _before_ conditional profiling, and you should process
dynamic links, simple lists and syntactic processing _after_ conditional
profiling.

== Roadmap
Add support for its:localeFilterList and its:localeFilterType
attributes.
